README.md, before:

# kubelet-stats-exporter
This is a Prometheus exporter to expose a Pods epehmeral storage usage stats from the Kubelets

The Kubernetes Kubelet has some metrics on ephemeral storage usage that are not currently exposed elsewhere. It may be useful to present these in a format that can be collected by Prometheus. Note the kubelet of Docker Desktop does not expose these metrics, so it is not a useful environment for testing.

It accesses the Kubelet on each node, via the Kubernetes API proxy. Authentication is done to the kubelet using a service account that is configured in `k8s-resources/ns-rbac.yaml`.

### Background reading:

Although these metrics are exposed by the kubelet API, they are not exposed on the kubelets `/metrics` endpoint, nor are they currently collected or exported with kube-state-metrics. Some issues with similar requests can be seen here:

https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics/issues/1046 (https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics/issues/1046#issuecomment-640161305)

https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/69507

### Deployment

Build the Docker image: `docker build -t kubelet-stats-exporter .`
Apply Kubernetes resources: `kubectl apply -f ./k8s-resources `

If you're using the PrometheusOperator, and want to configure a ServiceMonitor, apply the `extra/servicemonitor.yaml` file.

Example dashboards for Grafana can be seen in the `extra` folder.

Commit message:

Refactor App + Improve DockerFile + Create WorkFlow + Update Docs (#2)
* refactor app, update dockerfile, create docker release workflow, update docs

* add some fixes to code

* fix logging line

* refactor method as function

README.md, after:

# kubelet-stats-exporter
This is a Prometheus exporter to expose a Pods epehmeral storage usage stats from the Kubelets

The Kubernetes Kubelet has some metrics on ephemeral storage usage that are not currently exposed elsewhere. It may be useful to present these in a format that can be collected by Prometheus. Note the kubelet of Docker Desktop does not expose these metrics, so it is not a useful environment for testing.

It accesses the Kubelet on each node, via the Kubernetes API proxy. Authentication is done to the kubelet using a service account that is configured in `k8s-resources/ns-rbac.yaml`.

### Background reading:

Although these metrics are exposed by the kubelet API, they are not exposed on the kubelets `/metrics` endpoint, nor are they currently collected or exported with kube-state-metrics. Some issues with similar requests can be seen here:

https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics/issues/1046 (https://github.com/kubernetes/kube-state-metrics/issues/1046#issuecomment-640161305)

https://github.com/kubernetes/kubernetes/issues/69507

### Configuration

The following environment variables are useful to configure the application:

|Name|Type|Default|Description|
|--:|--:|--:|--:|
|EXPORTER_PORT|int|9118|Port exposing prometheus metrics|
|JSON_LOGGER|bool|true|Application logs on JSON Format for easier centralization using log shippers such as FluentBit|
|LOG_LEVEL|str|INFO|Logging Level. Werkzeug requests only logged on DEBUG level for log centralization costs saving purposes|
|SCRAPE_TIMEOUT|float|30.0|Prometheus Scrape timeout in secs|

### Application Endpoints

- `/health` - Application Status for Kubernetes readiness & liveness probes check.
- `/metrics` - Prometheus metrics endpoint.

### Deployment

Build the Docker image: `docker build -t kubelet-stats-exporter .`
Apply Kubernetes resources: `kubectl apply -f ./k8s-resources `

If you're using the PrometheusOperator, and want to configure a ServiceMonitor, apply the `extra/servicemonitor.yaml` file.

Example dashboards for Grafana can be seen in the `extra` folder.
